feat: support for new mongodbatlas_atlas_user and mongodbatlas_atlas_users data sources (#1432)
mongodb/terraform-provider-mongodbatlas: website/docs/d/atlas_user.html.markdown

---
layout: "mongodbatlas"
page_title: "MongoDB Atlas: atlas_user"
sidebar_current: "docs-mongodbatlas-datasource-atlas-user"
description: |-
    Provides a Atlas User Datasource.
---

# Data Source: mongodbatlas_atlas_user

`mongodbatlas_atlas_user` Provides a MongoDB Atlas User.

> -> **NOTE:** If you are the owner of a MongoDB Cloud organization or project, you can also retrieve the user profile for any user with membership in that organization or project.

Reviewer: I think we can use Atlas here. For a while we used `MongoDB Cloud` in the API docs as we weren't sure if we would be duplicating the OpenAPI spec for CM / OM.
```suggestion
-> **NOTE:** If you are the owner of a MongoDB Atlas organization or project, you can also retrieve the user profile for any user with membership in that organization or project.
```

Author: Adjusted `Cloud` to `Atlas`, thanks for pointing this out! Just to understand, will this eventually be adjusted in the API Docs as well?

Reviewer: It probably should be changed in the API. I'm not sure if there's a ticket for it yet or not.

## Example Usage

### Using user_id attribute to query
```terraform
data "mongodbatlas_atlas_user" "test" {
  user_id = "<USER_ID>"
}
```

### Using username attribute to query
```terraform
data "mongodbatlas_atlas_user" "test" {
  username = "<USERNAME>"
}
```

## Argument Reference

* `user_id` - (Optional) Unique 24-hexadecimal digit string that identifies this user.

> * `username` - (Optional) Email address that belongs to the MongoDB Cloud user account. You cannot modify this address after creating the user.

Reviewer: Cloud -> Atlas. Also the docs style guide notes that we should use contractions wherever possible. Suggesting that change as well. https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/style/contractions/
```suggestion
* `username` - (Optional) Email address that belongs to the MongoDB Atlas user account. You can't modify this address after creating the user.
```

~> **IMPORTANT:** Either `user_id` or `username` must be configurated.

## Attributes Reference

In addition to all arguments above, the following attributes are exported:

> * `country` - Two alphabet characters that identifies MongoDB Cloud user's geographic location. This parameter uses the ISO 3166-1a2 code format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `country` - Two alphabet characters that identifies MongoDB Atlas user's geographic location. This parameter uses the ISO 3166-1a2 code format.
```

Reviewer: question: can we link to a reference on that ISO format here?

Author: Would not be certain what to reference, this could be an option: https://www.iso.org/iso-3166-country-codes.html

> * `created_at` - Date and time when the current account is created. This value is in the ISO 8601 timestamp format in UTC..

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `created_at` - Date and time when the current account is created. This value is in the ISO 8601 timestamp format in UTC.
```

> * `email_address` - Email address that belongs to the MongoDB Cloud user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `email_address` - Email address that belongs to the MongoDB Atlas user.
```

> * `first_name` - First or given name that belongs to the MongoDB Cloud user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `first_name` - First or given name that belongs to the MongoDB Atlas user.
```

* `last_auth` - Date and time when the current account last authenticated. This value is in the ISO 8601 timestamp format in UTC.

> * `last_name` - Last name, family name, or surname that belongs to the MongoDB Cloud user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `last_name` - Last name, family name, or surname that belongs to the MongoDB Atlas user.
```

> * `mobile_number` - Mobile phone number that belongs to the MongoDB Cloud user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `mobile_number` - Mobile phone number that belongs to the MongoDB Atlas user.
```

> * `team_ids` - List of unique 24-hexadecimal digit strings that identifies the teams to which this MongoDB Cloud user belongs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `team_ids` - List of unique 24-hexadecimal digit strings that identifies the teams to which this MongoDB Atlas user belongs.
```

* `links.#.href` - Uniform Resource Locator (URL) that points another API resource to which this response has some relationship. This URL often begins with https://cloud.mongodb.com/api/atlas.
* `links.#.rel` - Uniform Resource Locator (URL) that defines the semantic relationship between this resource and another API resource. This URL often begins with https://cloud.mongodb.com/api/atlas.
* `roles.#.group_id` - Unique 24-hexadecimal digit string that identifies the project to which this role belongs. You can set a value for this parameter or orgId but not both in the same request.
* `roles.#.org_id` - Unique 24-hexadecimal digit string that identifies the organization to which this role belongs. You can set a value for this parameter or groupId but not both in the same request.

> * `roles.#.role_name` - Human-readable label that identifies the collection of privileges that MongoDB Cloud grants a specific API key, MongoDB Cloud user, or MongoDB Cloud team. These roles include organization- and project-level roles. The [MongoDB Documentation](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/reference/user-roles/#service-user-roles) describes the valid roles that can be assigned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `roles.#.role_name` - Human-readable label that identifies the collection of privileges that MongoDB Atlas grants a specific API key, user, or team. These roles include organization- and project-level roles. The [MongoDB Documentation](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/reference/user-roles/#service-user-roles) describes the valid roles that can be assigned.
```

> For additional documentation, you can reference to [MongoDB Atlas API - Get User By ID](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/reference/api-resources-spec/#tag/MongoDB-Cloud-Users/operation/getUser) and [MongoDB Atlas API - Get User By Username](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/reference/api-resources-spec/#tag/MongoDB-Cloud-Users/operation/getUserByUsername) respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For additional documentation, see [MongoDB Atlas API - Get User By ID](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/reference/api-resources-spec/#tag/MongoDB-Cloud-Users/operation/getUser) and [MongoDB Atlas API - Get User By Username](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/reference/api-resources-spec/#tag/MongoDB-Cloud-Users/operation/getUserByUsername) respectively.
```
